you are an effect of God that's what it
means to say you were created in the
image of God then we are conduits
through which God's thoughts are
extended out into the world making
ourselves empty it's very the Course in
Miracles is very Eastern in field
because the ego is you gotta fill
yourself up with information you gotta
fill yourself up with the images of what
you want you gotta fill yourself up with
strategy and then you gotta go make it
happen because the miracles is very
Eastern it's about emptying ourselves so
that we can be fully available in the
moment and the reason you want to be
still and know as the Bible says be
still and know is in order to practice
what the Course in Miracles calls the
holy instant where you are doing nothing
you are simply in a state of such
complete being that on a level of
thought as well as the level of behavior
miracles occur miracles occur miracles
occurred the present is already
programmed because it is an expression
of the mind of God
so one of two things is always true
either everything that we contribute to
your happiness is already here and
you're not saying it how many times have
we had that and also it's that the
universe is program so that either
everything that could make you happy is
already here or is on its way because
the universe as an expression of the
mind of God is already perfect it is
self-organizing and it is
self-correcting everything that could
make you happy is already here or is on
its way because the universe as an
expression of the mind of God is already
perfect it is self-organizing and it is
self-correcting and once you know that
even though on a material plane what you
give away you no longer have on a
spiritual plane you only get to keep
what you give then you become as the
Course in Miracles says generous out of
self-interest
your mental habit patterns fall in line
that way and you don't even make it
happen you just start singing oh my
goodness that makes me so happy
it just happened oh my goodness that is
so fantastic it just happened
oh my goodness that's so amazing it just
happened
why because the universe loves you so
much that everything that could possibly
contribute to your happiness is already
programmed God is love even though on
the Material Plane what you give away
you no longer have on a spiritual plane
you only get to keep what you give you
won't necessarily get the short-term
cash but you'll get a a a righteous flow
of abundance in your life you'll get the
deep stuff the real stuff the stuff that
has to do with your life just working
but when it happens that way you will be
very clear you didn't make this happen
[Music]
a viewer named Kyle wrote in as follows
quote I read returned to love a long
time ago that's one of the books written
by the same woman marianne williamson
when i was in a bad spot in my life and
for a long time i was tormented and
thought that it must have been true
until I started studying philosophy and
I reply I think that's the saddest part
of all that these religions including
new religions really prey on human
weakness your sorrow after your divorce
after your grandfather died that's the
opening they're looking two points
really briefly marianne williamson ran
for congress before and lost she's
running for president in it states right
now and she's gonna lose but even if she
loses she wins why because we have a
cycle going on here and this cycle is
one of the reasons why the separation of
church and state is a very important
principle in modern politics whether
you're talking about Christianity
Judaism Islam or some new-age religion
that doesn't even have a name yet she
has supported her bid for president with
her notoriety and her book sales as a
religious leader and then her bid for
president her election campaign itself
becomes a platform to sell more books to
increase her notoriety and influence as
a religious leader she's gonna reach
more people with this money-making
message with this ultimately flawed and
futile and false message of hope it's
hope but it's false hope people can say
it's positive and uplifting but it's
positive and uplifting and built on a
lie the same doctrines she's teaching at
least hypothetically they could be
preached by a Christian minister they
could be preached by a Muslim Imam
declare Sufi Muslim
could be okay in this case it's coming
from her she still identifies as Jewish
interestingly even though the religion
she's a member of has a whole lot to do
with Jesus with a capital J be that as
it may that cycle of the religious
establishment using democratic elections
as a platform to promote their religious
career and vice versa in this vicious
ongoing cycle there's a reason why so
many countries have said along this
broad notion of separation of church and
state you know it's easy to preach
veganism and it's very hard to preach
sobriety and secularism
by contrast I'm aware of how easy it is
to tell people hey stop eating meat stop
eating cheese it's going to improve your
health it's gonna improve the world's
ecology it's gonna help some animals at
least hypothetically it's very easy to
prove it's a win-win it's very easy for
me to say to you on an individual level
first the person man to man if you adopt
this diet veganism it's gonna make your
life better
if you quit drinking alcohol especially
in say Canada Scotland England I can
tell you a lot of ways in which your
life is going to get dramatically worse
if you quit drinking there are a lot of
people even their relationships at the
office even their relationships with
their boss and co-workers will get
dramatically worse if they quit drinking
alcohol British culture is huge on that
the annual Christmas party for the
employees and periodic trips to the pub
we're drinking out all the others a huge
part I can tell you ways in which
quitting alcohol is going to make your
life worse but you should do it because
it's the right thing to do whether
you're looking at getting into religion
or getting out of religion ultimately
the question is just about your personal
integrity whether or not you're the sort
of person who's going to stand up and
say there's a difference between true
and false
right and wrong and it's my integrity on
the online
it's my integrity that's being tested
here even if there were no other
consequences for anyone else or even if
I would benefit from allowing my
integrity to be violated allowing my
sense of the truth to be a little bit
pliant to bend with the circumstance
allowing my sense of right and wrong to
be compromised I I was in a really tough
situation after I split up with my wife
I dumped her for the record she didn't
dump me but I was basically abandoned in
this small town on the east coast of
Taiwan I didn't speak Chinese nobody
there spoke English except a Christian
missionary a white American Christian
missionary an attractive female
Christian missionary and you know what
she was a lot more desperate for my
company than I was for her she found
herself in a very strange situation here
she is a white American girl in a
predominantly Buddhist and Taoist town
small town in eastern taiwan she finds
herself having to explain christianity
to people who are have a background in
buddhism taoism confucianism and she
meets me i'm almost the only person in
the whole city who speaks english there
were a couple other people of course and
I'm an expert in Buddhism I know a lot
about Taoism I know a lot about Hinduism
I know a lot about all these things but
specifically my expertise in Plzen I
think I probably knew more about
Christianity about the New Testament
about the Christian BA I think I knew
more than she did about Christianity too
but you know she had some level of Bible
college education but you can imagine
for me as an atheist what I read I had a
certain kind of detached insight into
the historicity of the text and so on so
wow it was pretty pretty interesting for
her to me
me and you know what I could tell from
the first time I met her she was very
attracted to me I was attracted to her
to hypothetical fork in the road in my
life I could have seduced her
I could have decided to just let my
sense of true and false be a little bit
pliant my sense of right and wrong be a
little bit pliant and I could have
married her I could have married into
her church my father would have
supported my father would have said to
me well you know as long as you're doing
it for a beautiful woman he would have
said I did a lot of crazy things in my
life for for beautiful women it's all
right and whether or cynically or
sincerely let's just face a hypothetical
fact that I could have had a much better
life basically I could have had a better
life converting to any mainstream
American religion including access to
education career but above all else
community going to a picnic with 50
other people who know your name you know
being involved in humanitarian work
something I'm still passionate about it
with passion but all my life and can't
really act on because I'm an isolated
atheist and so on right would have had
all kinds of opportunities to make the
world a better place
through that religion and yeah in these
bizarre circumstances of being really
emotionally damaged unable to see my
daughter after just splitting up with my
ex-wife
Wow sure having someone who loves me
someone who cares about me even if
they're on some crazy religious mission
I can see the advantages but you know
what I chose to be a person of integrity
I don't care if it's wrong or if it's
right cuz most fundamentally what I'm
never going to give up is my ability and
my responsibility to distinguish wrong
and right for myself and when you join a
religion when you join any religion
whatsoever that's based on belief that
is the most fundamental thing that you
give up and then you end up spending the
rest of your life making excuses for the
crummy founder of that religion whether
you regard that as Mohammed or Moses you
spend the rest of your life making
excuses for their opinions about what's
wrong and what's not right and you give
up the process of making those decisions
for yourself and dealing with the
consequences yourself it's easy it's
easy to preach veganism here on YouTube
it's hard to preach having a life of
personal integrity of commitment to
doing what's right to being good to be
an honest - distinguishing truth from
fiction day after day after day when
there's no reward and there may be very
real consequences that you face do it
just because it's the right thing to do
[Music]